me :Now for the tip calculator — what’s this program supposed to do?
AI : It’s designed to help restaurant staff quickly calculate tips. They enter the bill amount and the tip percentage, and the program returns both the tip amount and the total charge for the customer.
me : Okay, so what are the inputs and outputs?
AI : The inputs are:
Bill amount (like $45.80)
Tip percentage (like 15%)
Both are numbers. The outputs are:
Tip amount (e.g., $6.87)
Total amount to charge (e.g., $52.67)
These should be shown as currency values with two decimal places.
me : Makes sense. Can we walk through the example by hand?
AI: Sure! Let’s use the example:
Bill amount: $45.80
Tip percentage: 15%
Step 1: Multiply the bill by the tip percentage: 
45.80
×
0.15
=
6.87
Step 2: Add the tip to the bill: 
45.80
+
6.87
=
52.67
Final message: “Tip is $6.87, total charge is $52.67”
me : Let’s move on to the late fee calculator. What’s the goal here?
AI: This one helps librarians calculate fines for overdue books. They enter how many days late the book is, and the program returns the fine amount. If the fine exceeds $10.00, it should say “Maximum fine reached.”
me: What are the inputs and outputs?
AI: Input:
Number of days overdue (integer)
Output:
Fine amount (at $0.50 per day)
Or a message: “Maximum fine reached” if the fine goes over $10
ME: Can we do the sample cases manually?
AI: Absolutely.
Case A: 5 days late Calculation: 
5
×
0.50
=
2.50
 Fine: $2.50
Case B: 25 days late Calculation: 
25
×
0.50
=
12.50
 Fine: Capped at $10.00 Message: “Maximum fine reached”
Case C: 0 days late Fine: $0.00
